Themeing support (#87)
fermyon/bartholomew: docs/content/themes.md

title = "Bartholomew themes"
date = "2022-07-20T22:44:01.300319091Z"

[extra]

---

Bartholomew supports theming which allows for easy customization of the site along with the user defined tempaltes.

## Adding a theme

> Once the initial site has been setup using the [quickstart section](/quickstart). Create a themes folder where you will be able to download different themes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the initial site has been set up using the [quickstart section](/quickstart), create a themes folder where you will be able to download different themes.
```

```bash
mkdir themes
```

Once the folder is created, different themes can be added as submodules to the folder which can then in turn be used to theme the site.

```bash
cd themes
git submodule add <Source_to_the_theme>
```

Multiple themes can be added to the themes directory but only one of them will be active at a given time as described in the next section.

## Configuring the site to use the theme

To choose a theme for the website, the `theme` attribute in `config/site.toml` must be configured, where the value is the name of the theme as found in the `themes/` folder.

```toml
title = "Bartholomew Documentation"
base_url = "http://localhost:3000"
about = "The Micro-CMS for WebAssembly and Spin"

> theme = "<name of theme>"

Reviewer 2: Could this be a bit more explicit?
`theme = <theme-directory>`?

[extra]
copyright = "Fermyon"
github = "https://github.com/fermyon/bartholomew"
twitter = "https://twitter.com/fermyontech"
ga_measurement_id = ""

date_style = "%B %e, %Y"
```

> One more step that needs to be done before themes are fully available to the site is to the change the static file server component in `spin.toml` configuration so that it provides the static assets of the selected theme. The convention of mounting the static assets of the themes before the user defined static assets is recommened.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One more step that needs to be done before themes are fully available to the site is to the change the static file server component in the `spin.toml` configuration so that it provides the static assets of the selected theme. The convention of mounting the static assets of the themes before the user-defined static assets is recommened.  
```

```
.
.
.

[[component]]
source = "modules/spin_static_fs.wasm"
id = "fileserver"
files = [ {source = "themes/<name of theme>/static", destination ="/"}, { source = "static/", destination = "/" }, ]
[component.trigger]
route = "/static/..."

```

## Template precedence

> When a theme is enabled for a site, both the user defined and theme-provided assets like the templates, scripts and static assets will be available. In case that a theme provided asset and user provided asset have the same name, the user-defined asset takes precedence. This allows for the user to override the theme to allow for customization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a theme is enabled for a site, both the user-defined and theme-provided assets like the templates, scripts and static assets will be available. If a theme-provided asset and user-provided asset have the same name, the user-defined asset takes precedence. This allows for the user to override the theme to allow for customization. 
```

> As an example, if both `templates/main.hbs` and `themes/<name of thene>/templates/main.hbs` exist, the user defined `templates/main.hbs` takes precedence leading to the rendering engine using the user defined template overriding the theme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, if both `templates/main.hbs` and `themes/<name of theme>/templates/main.hbs` exist, the user-defined `templates/main.hbs` takes precedence, leading to the rendering engine using the user-defined template overriding the theme.
```

## Creating a Theme

> Creating  a theme for Bartholomew is easy. Create a new folder and initialize it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a theme for Bartholomew is easy. Create a new folder and initialize it.
```

```
mkdir custom_theme
cd custom_theme
git init
```

Once the git repository is initialized, create the three required directories.
```
mkdir templates scripts static
```

> Create the custom theme by placing the handlebar templates in the `template/` folder while the rhai scripts are places in the `scripts/` folder. All the static assets like the images, js and CSS are placed in the static folder. For reference on creating templates, refer to the [templates section](/templates).

Reviewer 2: nit: rhai -> Rhai scripts.

Reviewer 2: nit: js -> JS

Author: I will push a new commit if everything else looks fine. Thanks!

> Create the custom theme by placing the handlebar templates in the `template/` folder while the Rhai scripts are places in the `scripts/` folder. All the static assets like the images, JS and CSS are placed in the static folder. For reference on creating templates, refer to the [templates section](/templates).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the custom theme by placing the handlebar templates in the `template/` folder while the Rhai scripts are placed in the `scripts/` folder. All of the static assets such as images, JS and CSS are placed in the static folder. For reference on creating templates, refer to the [templates section](/templates).
```

> Once the required changes are done, commit and push the changes to a remote repository, so as to allow for the theme to cloned as a submodule that can be used for themeing a site. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the required changes are done, commit and push the changes to a remote repository, so as to allow for the theme to be cloned as a submodule that can be used for theming a site. 
```
